README.md, before:

# callbag.vim

Lightweight observables and iterables for VimScript based on [Callbag Spec](https://github.com/callbag/callbag).

## Source Factories

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | create                                                 |
| Yes           | empty                                                  |
| Yes           | fromEvent                                              |
| Yes           | fromList                                               |
| Yes           | fromPromise                                            |
| Yes           | interval                                               |
| Yes           | lazy                                                   |
| Yes           | never                                                  |
| Yes           | of                                                     |
| Yes           | throwError                                             |

## Sink Factories

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | forEach                                                |
| Yes           | subscribe                                              |
| Yes           | toList                                                 |

## Multicasting

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | makeSubject                                            |
| Yes           | share                                                  |
| No            | makeBehaviorSubject                                    |

## Operators

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | combine                                                |
| Yes           | concat                                                 |
| Yes           | debounceTime                                           |
| Yes           | delay                                                  |
| Yes           | distinctUntilChanged                                   |
| Yes           | filter                                                 |
| Yes           | flatten                                                |
| Yes           | group                                                  |
| Yes           | map                                                    |
| Yes           | materialize                                            |
| Yes           | merge                                                  |
| Yes           | scan                                                   |
| Yes           | skip                                                   |
| Yes           | switchMap                                              |
| Yes           | take                                                   |
| Yes           | takeUntil                                              |
| Yes           | takeWhile                                              |
| Yes           | tap                                                    |
| No            | buffer                                                 |
| No            | bufferTime                                             |
| No            | bufferUntil                                            |
| No            | dematerialize                                          |
| No            | concatWith                                             |
| No            | find                                                   |
| No            | first                                                  |
| No            | graceful                                               |
| No            | last                                                   |
| No            | latest                                                 |
| No            | mapWhen                                                |
| No            | mergeWith                                              |
| No            | pausable                                               |
| No            | repeat                                                 |
| No            | rescue                                                 |
| No            | retry                                                  |
| No            | throttle                                               |
| No            | timeout                                                |

## Vim Job and Channels

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | spawn                                                  |

`spawn` is currently only implemented for Vim8. It doesn't support `stdin` yet.

## Utils

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | operate                                                |
| Yes           | pipe                                                   |

`pipe()`'s first argument should be a source factory.
`operate()` doesn't requires first function to be the source.

**Note** In order to support older version of vim without lambdas, callbag.vim explicitly doesn't use lambdas in the source code.

## Notifications

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | createNextNotification(value)                          |
| Yes           | createErrorNotification(error)                         |
| Yes           | createCompleteNotification()                           |
| Yes           | isNextNotification(notification)                       |
| Yes           | isErrorNotification(notification)                      |
| Yes           | isCompleteNotification(notification)                   |

`Notification` is a dictionary with `kind`.

### Next Notification

```vim
let nextNotification = { 'kind': 'N', 'value': 'value' }
```

### Error Notification

```vim
let errorNotification = { 'kind': 'E', 'error': 'error' }
```

### Complete Notification

```vim
let completeNotification = { 'kind': 'C' }
```

## Difference with callbag spec

While the original callbag spec requires payload to be optional - `(type: number, payload?: any) => void`,
callbag.vim requires payload to be required. This is primarily due to limition on how vimscript functions works.
Having optional parameter and using `...` and `a:0` to read the extra args and then use `a:1` makes the code complicated.
You can use `callbag#undefined()` method to pass undefined. `callbag#isUndefined(value)`
can be used to check if a value is defined or undefined.

## Example

```viml
    function s:log(message) abort
        echom a:message
    endfunction

    call callbag#pipe(
        \ callbag#fromEvent(['TextChangedI', 'TextChangedP']),
        \ callbag#debounceTime(250),
        \ callbag#subscribe({
        \   'next':{x->s:log('text changed')},
        \   'error':{e->s:log('error')},
        \   'complete':{->s:log('complete')}
        \ }),
        \ )
```

Refer to [examples.vim](examples.vim) for more.

## Synchronously waiting for completion or error

`callbag#toList()` operator with `wait()` will allow to synchronously wait for 
completion or error. Default value for `sleep` is `1` miliseconds and `timeout` 
is `-1` which means it will never timeout.

```vim
try
    let l:result = callbag#pipe(
        \ callbag#interval(250),
        \ callbag#take(3),
        \ callbag#toList(),
        \ ).wait({ 'sleep': 1, 'timeout': 5000 })
    echom l:result
catch
    " error may be thrown due to timeout or if it emits error
    echom v:exception . ' ' . v:throwpoint
endtry
```

Similar to `callbag#subscribe` you can manually unsubscribe instead of waiting
for timeout. By default `wait()` will auto unsubscribe when it completes or errors.

```vim
let l:result = callbag#pipe(
    \ callbag#interval(250),
    \ callbag#take(10),
    \ callbag#toList(),
    \ )

call timer_start(250, {x->l:result.unsubscribe()})
let l:items = l:result.wait()
```

`wait()` is already implemented in an efficient way i.e. if it has already completed
or errored it will synchronously return values without any `sleep` or `timers`.

## Embedding

Please do not take direct dependency on this plugin and instead embed it using the following command.

```vim
:CallbagEmbed path=./autoload/myplugin/callbag.vim namespace=myplugin#callbag
```

This can then be referenced using `myplugin#callbag#pipe()`

## License

MIT

## Author

Prabir Shrestha

Commit message:

add support for neovim jobs

README.md, after:

# callbag.vim

Lightweight observables and iterables for VimScript based on [Callbag Spec](https://github.com/callbag/callbag).

## Source Factories

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | create                                                 |
| Yes           | empty                                                  |
| Yes           | fromEvent                                              |
| Yes           | fromList                                               |
| Yes           | fromPromise                                            |
| Yes           | interval                                               |
| Yes           | lazy                                                   |
| Yes           | never                                                  |
| Yes           | of                                                     |
| Yes           | throwError                                             |

## Sink Factories

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | forEach                                                |
| Yes           | subscribe                                              |
| Yes           | toList                                                 |

## Multicasting

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | makeSubject                                            |
| Yes           | share                                                  |
| No            | makeBehaviorSubject                                    |

## Operators

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | combine                                                |
| Yes           | concat                                                 |
| Yes           | debounceTime                                           |
| Yes           | delay                                                  |
| Yes           | distinctUntilChanged                                   |
| Yes           | filter                                                 |
| Yes           | flatten                                                |
| Yes           | group                                                  |
| Yes           | map                                                    |
| Yes           | materialize                                            |
| Yes           | merge                                                  |
| Yes           | scan                                                   |
| Yes           | skip                                                   |
| Yes           | switchMap                                              |
| Yes           | take                                                   |
| Yes           | takeUntil                                              |
| Yes           | takeWhile                                              |
| Yes           | tap                                                    |
| No            | buffer                                                 |
| No            | bufferTime                                             |
| No            | bufferUntil                                            |
| No            | dematerialize                                          |
| No            | concatWith                                             |
| No            | find                                                   |
| No            | first                                                  |
| No            | graceful                                               |
| No            | last                                                   |
| No            | latest                                                 |
| No            | mapWhen                                                |
| No            | mergeWith                                              |
| No            | pausable                                               |
| No            | repeat                                                 |
| No            | rescue                                                 |
| No            | retry                                                  |
| No            | throttle                                               |
| No            | timeout                                                |

## Vim Job and Channels

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | spawn                                                  |

`spawn` uses `job_start` in Vim8+ and `jobstart` in Neovim.
`stdin` is currently not supported.

## Utils

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | operate                                                |
| Yes           | pipe                                                   |

`pipe()`'s first argument should be a source factory.
`operate()` doesn't requires first function to be the source.

**Note** In order to support older version of vim without lambdas, callbag.vim explicitly doesn't use lambdas in the source code.

## Notifications

| Implemented   | Name                                                   |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Yes           | createNextNotification(value)                          |
| Yes           | createErrorNotification(error)                         |
| Yes           | createCompleteNotification()                           |
| Yes           | isNextNotification(notification)                       |
| Yes           | isErrorNotification(notification)                      |
| Yes           | isCompleteNotification(notification)                   |

`Notification` is a dictionary with `kind`.

### Next Notification

```vim
let nextNotification = { 'kind': 'N', 'value': 'value' }
```

### Error Notification

```vim
let errorNotification = { 'kind': 'E', 'error': 'error' }
```

### Complete Notification

```vim
let completeNotification = { 'kind': 'C' }
```

## Difference with callbag spec

While the original callbag spec requires payload to be optional - `(type: number, payload?: any) => void`,
callbag.vim requires payload to be required. This is primarily due to limition on how vimscript functions works.
Having optional parameter and using `...` and `a:0` to read the extra args and then use `a:1` makes the code complicated.
You can use `callbag#undefined()` method to pass undefined. `callbag#isUndefined(value)`
can be used to check if a value is defined or undefined.

## Example

```viml
    function s:log(message) abort
        echom a:message
    endfunction

    call callbag#pipe(
        \ callbag#fromEvent(['TextChangedI', 'TextChangedP']),
        \ callbag#debounceTime(250),
        \ callbag#subscribe({
        \   'next':{x->s:log('text changed')},
        \   'error':{e->s:log('error')},
        \   'complete':{->s:log('complete')}
        \ }),
        \ )
```

Refer to [examples.vim](examples.vim) for more.

## Synchronously waiting for completion or error

`callbag#toList()` operator with `wait()` will allow to synchronously wait for 
completion or error. Default value for `sleep` is `1` miliseconds and `timeout` 
is `-1` which means it will never timeout.

```vim
try
    let l:result = callbag#pipe(
        \ callbag#interval(250),
        \ callbag#take(3),
        \ callbag#toList(),
        \ ).wait({ 'sleep': 1, 'timeout': 5000 })
    echom l:result
catch
    " error may be thrown due to timeout or if it emits error
    echom v:exception . ' ' . v:throwpoint
endtry
```

Similar to `callbag#subscribe` you can manually unsubscribe instead of waiting
for timeout. By default `wait()` will auto unsubscribe when it completes or errors.

```vim
let l:result = callbag#pipe(
    \ callbag#interval(250),
    \ callbag#take(10),
    \ callbag#toList(),
    \ )

call timer_start(250, {x->l:result.unsubscribe()})
let l:items = l:result.wait()
```

`wait()` is already implemented in an efficient way i.e. if it has already completed
or errored it will synchronously return values without any `sleep` or `timers`.

## Embedding

Please do not take direct dependency on this plugin and instead embed it using the following command.

```vim
:CallbagEmbed path=./autoload/myplugin/callbag.vim namespace=myplugin#callbag
```

This can then be referenced using `myplugin#callbag#pipe()`

## License

MIT

## Author

Prabir Shrestha
